this article aims at collecting all information needed for dentists 
regarding the covid19 pandemic throughout the world by reviewing 
articles published by now . in late 2019 a pneumonia outbreak of 
uncertain etiology happened in wuhan china . there were many reports 
related to a liveanimal and seafood market supporting that the 
pathogens were transferred from animals to humans rapidly evolving 
into transmission from human to human . the pathogen was classified 
as 2019 novel corona virus 2019ncov and the disease was named corona 
virus disease 2019 covid19 . given that covid19 has lately been 
detected in infected patients’ saliva the covid19 outbreak is an 
alert that all dental and other health professionals must be vigilant 
in defending against the infectious disease spread and it may enable 
to assess whether noninvasive saliva diagnostic for covid19 . there 
has so far been no evidence from randomized controlled trials to 
prescribe any particular antincov treatment or vaccine and covid19 
management has been widely supportive . since the ace2 was expressing 
on oral cavity mucosa there is a potentially huge covid19 infectious 
vulnerability risk for oral cavity and brought up a proof for the 
future prevention procedure in dental practice and daily life . as a 
result the whole dental teams should be vigilant and keep patients 
and themselves in a safe environment by following the guideline in 
this study . this article aims at collecting all information needed 
for dentists regarding the covid19 pandemic throughout the world by 
reviewing articles published by now . in late 2019 a pneumonia 
outbreak of uncertain etiology happened in wuhan china . there were 
many reports related to a liveanimal and seafood market supporting 
that the pathogens were transferred from animals to humans rapidly 
evolving into transmission from human to human . the pathogen was 
classified as 2019 novel corona virus 2019ncov and the disease was 
named corona virus disease 2019 covid19 . given that covid19 has 
lately been detected in infected patients’ saliva the covid19 
outbreak is an alert that all dental and other health professionals 
must be vigilant in defending against the infectious disease spread 
and it may enable to assess whether noninvasive saliva diagnostic for 
covid19 . there has so far been no evidence from randomized controlled 
trials to prescribe any particular antincov treatment or vaccine and 
covid19 management has been widely supportive . since the ace2 was 
expressing on oral cavity mucosa there is a potentially huge covid19 
infectious vulnerability risk for oral cavity and brought up a proof 
for the future prevention procedure in dental practice and daily life 
. as a result the whole dental teams should be vigilant and keep 
patients and themselves in a safe environment by following the guideline 
in this study .this article aims at collecting all information needed 
for dentists regarding the covid19 pandemic throughout the world by 
reviewing articles published by now . in late 2019 a pneumonia outbreak 
of uncertain etiology happened in wuhan china . there were many 
reports related to a liveanimal and seafood market supporting that 
the pathogens were transferred from animals to humans rapidly evolving 
into transmission from human to human . the pathogen was classified as 
2019 novel corona virus 2019ncov and the disease was named corona virus 
disease 2019 covid19 . given that covid19 has lately been detected in 
infected patients’ saliva the covid19 outbreak is an alert that all 
dental and other health professionals must be vigilant in defending 
against the infectious disease spread and it may enable to assess 
whether noninvasive saliva diagnostic for covid19 . there has so far 
been no evidence from randomized controlled trials to prescribe any 
particular antincov treatment or vaccine and covid19 management has 
been widely supportive . since the ace2 was expressing on oral cavity 
mucosa there is a potentially huge covid19 infectious vulnerability 
risk for oral cavity and brought up a proof for the future prevention 
procedure in dental practice and daily life . as a result the whole 
dental teams should be vigilant and keep patients and themselves in 
a safe environment by following the guideline in this study .